README.md, before:

# FFMPEG Video Splitter

A Python-based tool to automatically split video files into multiple clips using FFMPEG, configured through a JSON file.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12.7 or higher
- FFmpeg installed on your system

### Installing FFmpeg

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):**
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ffmpeg
```

**macOS:**
```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

**Windows:**
Download from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) and add to PATH.

## Installation

1. Clone or download this repository
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install python-ffmpeg pyyaml
```

Or if you're using uv or pip with pyproject.toml:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

1. Create a `split_config.json` file in the project directory (see configuration below)
2. Run the script:

```bash
python main.py
```

The tool will process all source files defined in the configuration and create the video clips in the specified output directory.

## Configuration File Structure

Create a `split_config.json` file with the following structure:

```json
{
  "output_dir": "path/to/output/directory",
  "source_files": [
    {
      "path": "/path/to/source/video.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["Clip Name 1", ["start_time", "end_time"]],
        ["Clip Name 2", ["start_time", "end_time"]],
        ["Clip Name 3", ["start_time"]]
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Configuration Parameters

- **`output_dir`**: Directory where the split video files will be saved. Use `"."` for the current directory.
- **`source_files`**: Array of source video files to process
  - **`path`**: Full path to the source video file
  - **`clip_ranges`**: Array of clips to extract from the video
    - Each clip is defined as: `["Clip Name", ["timestamps"]]`

### Time Stamp Format

Time stamps should be in the format: `H:MM:SS` or `HH:MM:SS`

Examples: `"0:19:22"`, `"1:05:30"`, `"00:00:15"`

## Time Stamp Rules

### Default Behavior
By default, you specify both the **start** and **end** time for each clip:
```json
["Clip Name", ["0:10:00", "0:20:00"]]
```

### Single Time Stamp Shortcuts
If only **one** time stamp is provided, the behavior depends on the clip's position:

#### 1. **First Clip** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: Beginning of the video (`00:00:00`)
- **End**: The provided timestamp

```json
["Introduction", ["0:05:30"]]
```
This extracts from the start of the video to 5 minutes 30 seconds.

#### 2. **Last Clip** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: The provided timestamp
- **End**: End of the video

```json
["Conclusion", ["1:45:00"]]
```
This extracts from 1 hour 45 minutes to the end of the video.

#### 3. **In-Between Clips** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: End time of the previous clip
- **End**: The provided timestamp

```json
["Chapter 1", ["0:10:00"]],
["Chapter 2", ["0:25:00"]],
["Chapter 3", ["0:40:00"]]
```
- Chapter 1: `00:00:00` to `0:10:00`
- Chapter 2: `0:10:00` to `0:25:00`
- Chapter 3: `0:25:00` to `0:40:00`

## Example Configuration

```json
{
  "output_dir": "./output",
  "source_files": [
    {
      "path": "/media/videos/lecture.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["01 - Introduction", ["0:05:30"]],
        ["02 - Main Topic", ["0:15:45", "0:45:20"]],
        ["03 - Advanced Concepts", ["1:10:30"]],
        ["04 - Q&A Session", ["1:30:00"]]
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/media/videos/workshop.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["Part 1", ["0:00:00", "0:30:00"]],
        ["Part 2", ["0:30:00", "1:00:00"]],
        ["Part 3", ["1:00:00"]]
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This configuration will:
- Create an `output` directory in the current folder
- Process two video files
- Extract 4 clips from `lecture.mp4` and 3 clips from `workshop.mp4`
- Name each output file according to the clip name (e.g., `01 - Introduction.mp4`)

## Features

- **Fast processing**: Uses codec copy to avoid re-encoding (instant splitting)
- **Async execution**: Processes videos asynchronously for better performance
- **Flexible time stamps**: Support for single or dual timestamp notation
- **Multiple source files**: Process multiple videos in one configuration
- **Automatic time calculation**: Intelligently fills in missing timestamps based on clip position

## Notes

- The tool uses FFmpeg's copy codec, which means no re-encoding occurs. This makes the splitting process very fast.
- Output files are named exactly as specified in the configuration with the same file extension of the source video file.
- If the output file already exists, it will be overwritten (`-y` flag)

Commit message:

Add .gitignore and FFmpeg setup script for automatic detection and download Added FFmpeg availability checking in main.py Updated README.md

README.md, after:

# FFMPEG Video Splitter

A Python-based tool to automatically split video files into multiple clips using FFMPEG, configured through a JSON file.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12.7 or higher
- FFmpeg (automatically downloaded if not found)

### FFmpeg Installation

**Good news!** This tool will automatically download the appropriate FFmpeg binaries for your operating system if FFmpeg is not already installed. The first time you run the script, it will:

1. Check if FFmpeg is installed on your system
2. If not found, automatically download the correct version for your OS (Windows, Linux, or macOS)
3. Extract and set up FFmpeg in a local `ffmpeg_bin` directory
4. Use it for all video processing

**Manual Installation (Optional):**

If you prefer to install FFmpeg system-wide:

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):**
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ffmpeg
```

**macOS:**
```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

**Windows:**
Download from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) and add to PATH.

## Installation

1. Clone or download this repository
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install python-ffmpeg pyyaml
```

Or if you're using uv or pip with pyproject.toml:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

1. Create a `split_config.json` file in the project directory (see configuration below)
2. Run the script:

```bash
python main.py
```

The tool will process all source files defined in the configuration and create the video clips in the specified output directory.

## Configuration File Structure

Create a `split_config.json` file with the following structure:

```json
{
  "output_dir": "path/to/output/directory",
  "source_files": [
    {
      "path": "/path/to/source/video.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["Clip Name 1", ["start_time", "end_time"]],
        ["Clip Name 2", ["start_time", "end_time"]],
        ["Clip Name 3", ["start_time"]]
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Configuration Parameters

- **`output_dir`**: Directory where the split video files will be saved. Use `"."` for the current directory.
- **`source_files`**: Array of source video files to process
  - **`path`**: Full path to the source video file
  - **`clip_ranges`**: Array of clips to extract from the video
    - Each clip is defined as: `["Clip Name", ["timestamps"]]`

### Time Stamp Format

Time stamps should be in the format: `H:MM:SS` or `HH:MM:SS`

Examples: `"0:19:22"`, `"1:05:30"`, `"00:00:15"`

## Time Stamp Rules

### Default Behavior
By default, you specify both the **start** and **end** time for each clip:
```json
["Clip Name", ["0:10:00", "0:20:00"]]
```

### Single Time Stamp Shortcuts
If only **one** time stamp is provided, the behavior depends on the clip's position:

#### 1. **First Clip** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: Beginning of the video (`00:00:00`)
- **End**: The provided timestamp

```json
["Introduction", ["0:05:30"]]
```
This extracts from the start of the video to 5 minutes 30 seconds.

#### 2. **Last Clip** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: The provided timestamp
- **End**: End of the video

```json
["Conclusion", ["1:45:00"]]
```
This extracts from 1 hour 45 minutes to the end of the video.

#### 3. **In-Between Clips** (single timestamp)
- **Start**: End time of the previous clip
- **End**: The provided timestamp

```json
["Chapter 1", ["0:10:00"]],
["Chapter 2", ["0:25:00"]],
["Chapter 3", ["0:40:00"]]
```
- Chapter 1: `00:00:00` to `0:10:00`
- Chapter 2: `0:10:00` to `0:25:00`
- Chapter 3: `0:25:00` to `0:40:00`

## Example Configuration

```json
{
  "output_dir": "./output",
  "source_files": [
    {
      "path": "/media/videos/lecture.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["01 - Introduction", ["0:05:30"]],
        ["02 - Main Topic", ["0:15:45", "0:45:20"]],
        ["03 - Advanced Concepts", ["1:10:30"]],
        ["04 - Q&A Session", ["1:30:00"]]
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/media/videos/workshop.mp4",
      "clip_ranges": [
        ["Part 1", ["0:00:00", "0:30:00"]],
        ["Part 2", ["0:30:00", "1:00:00"]],
        ["Part 3", ["1:00:00"]]
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This configuration will:
- Create an `output` directory in the current folder
- Process two video files
- Extract 4 clips from `lecture.mp4` and 3 clips from `workshop.mp4`
- Name each output file according to the clip name (e.g., `01 - Introduction.mp4`)

## Features

- **Fast processing**: Uses codec copy to avoid re-encoding (instant splitting)
- **Async execution**: Processes videos asynchronously for better performance
- **Flexible time stamps**: Support for single or dual timestamp notation
- **Multiple source files**: Process multiple videos in one configuration
- **Automatic time calculation**: Intelligently fills in missing timestamps based on clip position

## Notes

- The tool uses FFmpeg's copy codec, which means no re-encoding occurs. This makes the splitting process very fast.
- Output files are named exactly as specified in the configuration with the same file extension of the source video file.
- If the output file already exists, it will be overwritten (`-y` flag)
